All right let's go ahead and build our first cube asset.
So what we want to do is we first want to make a copy of this letter.
Then we want to make sure that this copy right here the original one we want to keep that there forever
we never want to get rid of that.
We always want to have one large cue that we can always draw from if we need more cubes.
For now I'm going to go ahead and grab that cube and drag it to the corner of my screen like so and
then I'm going to grab my other cube and drag it over here.
So the first asset we're going to be creating is going to be a very simple treat.
So let's go ahead and zoom in there a little bit.
Then using my transform to what I can go ahead and shrink this down to the size I want.
So I'm going to start with the leaf part of my tree.
And the reason for this is because I want the leaf part to be larger than the trunk.
And if I shrink it down too small for the trunk I won't be able to resize it to a larger size for that
leaves without losing my resolution.
So that's why I'm starting with the leaves of the tree first.
So you can make this whatever size you like.
So I'm going to make it about that size.
I'll enter then I'm going to go ahead and copy this layer.
So I had control J.
So now I have a second one.
The cool thing is I can drag that up and you see how it makes it look like it's grown and I can stack
it right on top of the other one or I can drag it right above it.
So I'm going to not start it right on top of the other one but make it just a little bit taller.
So somewhere about there should be good.
So now we have the leaf section of our tree.
Next let's go ahead and copy this layer and then we're going to drag that layer beneath all of our other
layers.
We're going to drag that down below it like so.
Now this is going to be the trunk of our tree.
So I'm going to go ahead and shrink that down so it's really small.
It's going to shrink it down to about half its size.
Somewhere between half the size and a third of the size so maybe a little bit smaller.
So yeah.
More towards the third of the size of the tree.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and hit enter and now what we can do is we can drag that up like so and then we can
make another copy of this and we can drag it over and under like so and then we want to drag the layer
underneath the other one.
So that way it starts to build that trunk and let's do one more.
So I control Jane copy the dreck underneath our layer and we can drag it down like so now I'm going
to bring this right into the corner of my grid just like that.
Now this tree trunk is looking a little bit too large for me.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to select all of my trunk cubes and I'm going to merge them together
and then I'm going to shrink that down and I can shrink down and keep us from portions by holding down
shift and I can keep it in the center by holding down old.
So you'll see that I'll keep that right in the center as I shrink it down so I'm going to shrink it
down to about there.
And now I need to select all of my layers merge them together.
Next let's go ahead and select the cubes that are making up our leaves and we're going to merge those
together.
So we want each individual part of our asset to be its own layer.
Next we're going to add a drop shadow on our shrunk because this big body we use are looming over this
trunk.
It's going to be creating a shadow down here.
So the way we're going to create that shadow is by selecting the shape of our body of leaves and then
we're going to go ahead and add a new layer underneath that and fill that in with the color black once
we've done that we can go ahead and use the air.
He's on our keyboard and pushed that down like so we can push it down as far as we want that shadow
to go next.
Let's go ahead and right click this layer and we're going to create a clipping mask.
So now that's a clipping mask for the trunk.
Now we need to turn down the opacity on this layer so we can actually see through it like a real shadow.
So I'm going to turn it down to about 25 percent.
So we want to make sure that everything within our graphics for this game looks exactly the same.
So every time we do a shadow we need to make sure that the opacity is at 25 percent and it doesn't vary.
The only time this will be an exception is when we have our car right up against the ground.
It's going to be creating a lot darker shadows so that shadow will be darker.
All right.
That brings us to the end of this lecture.
So in this lecture you learn how to create this cool tree in Photoshop.
Now I know it doesn't look exactly like a tree right now.
But in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and add some color to it and it'll read way more like
a tree.
Thanks for watching this lecture.
And I look forward to seeing you in the next one.